[SOUND] In this video,
we're gonna be using a Particle System
to create some stars that are slowly
moving in the background of our games.
So let's jump in and
start doing some particles.
Let's start this process by adding
a particle system into our hierarchy.
So, over in the hierarchy, right click,
scroll down until you find effects, and
then particle system.
And here we have a standard
particle system,
just pumping out some
white fluffy snowdrops.
So this is our particle system.
What's going on here?
What exactly is happening?
Well if you're not familiar
with particle systems,
let me just give you a quick
little diagram to show.
Particle systems have an emitter.
We have one emitter and
it emits a whole bunch of particles.
And we have full control over the
particle, well when I say full control,
we have lots of control
over the particles.
How fast they go, how many there are,
how they move, what shape they're in,
what color they are, lots and
lots of control over that.
And with our particle systems,
we can make tons of great stuff.
So a particle system itself is
a component that we add to a game object.
So that's what a particle system is.
It's a component that's
added to a game object.
And then we use modules for
controlling the behavior of our
particles in our particle system.
And so jumping back over here in our
particle system, which I'm gonna,
up at the top of the particle
system in the inspector,
I'm gonna rename this as star field
because we're creating a star field.
And you see on the star field we have
a whole bunch of information and
my apologies, I've scaled my screen up.
But for some reason, the particle systems
stays a little bit small and doesn't scale
up when Unity scales up, so it's probably
a little bit smaller on your screen.
So my apologies for that.
So at the top where it says Starfield,
this is the main module.
This has got, I guess, our main controls.
And then, underneath,
we have a whole bunch of other modules.
We have the emission module,
the shape module,
the velocity over lifetime module and
so on.
And now there's hundreds maybe thousands
of tweaks and tunes and fiddles that
we can do with our particle system which
to be honest, is a designer's dream.
There's so much we can do in here, but I'm
not not gonna go in and sort of point out
this is what this does, this is what
this does, that's what that does.
We're gonna learn by doing,
we're just gonna jump in and create, and
a lot of the time you'll
find yourselves saying, hm,
I need to make it a little bit this and
you scroll around and then you'll find
the thing that relates a little bit
of this and a little bit of that.
And you're scrolling up and down,
so I just want you to be really
comfortable with this system for
working when you're creating particles.
There's just a lot of bouncing around,
a lot of fiddling, and
a lot of experimentation, so cool.
Hopefully that sounds okay.
Now we've got our star field, what we need
to do is position it up the top of our
game and have the stars flying
downwards on the screen.
I'm gonna hit W on my keyboard,
move my particle system up to
the top of my game screen.
Hit E which allows me to rotate and
then rotate so
we are pointing pretty much straight.
That's the red one I'm looking for.
Straight down, that looks pretty good.
Okay, now within our inspector,
I'm gonna look for the shape.
You can see we have a shape here,
it's currently ticked.
Ticked means it's using it,
not ticked doesn't mean it's using it.
To expand them you just click on where
the words are, that opens up our module.
We have a cone at the moment, you can
see the shape of our particle system as
a cone, that means the particles
are spreading outwards in a cone shape.
If I change that from cone to box and
the box starts off pretty little, but
it's just pointing them all straight down.
They're all coming down
in a straight line.
I'm going to underneath scale, drag the x
size of my box until it is just
a little bit wider than my game screen.
Let's position it so
it's a bit more in the middle.
Again, so you can see, it kind of
looks like it's snowing at the moment.
Not exactly what we're going for,
but we're getting pretty close,
getting in the ballpark.
We have our stars that will be flying
down as we are flying up through the sky.
Now, what do we need to do next?
I'm gonna change the size of my stars.
They're way too big and fluffy.
And so, under our main module you
can see we have our start size.
And there's one value in here,
we can just drop this down to say 0.1,
that will make all of our stars 0.1.
Now I want some of my stars
to be that small, but
I want some of them to be
a little bit bigger as well.
I want some variation.
And the way we do that,
next to a lot of our fields in our module,
you'lll see a little
arrow to the right of it.
If you click on that,
then it gives us a few options, Constant,
Curve, Random Between Two Constants and
Random Between Two Curves.
We do Random Between Two Constants, which
allows us to choose two numbers, in other
words, constants, and we say that it will
be randomly sized between those two.
So at the moment we have between 1 and
0.1,
I like to do it the other way around,
so I'll say between 0.1 and 0.4.
I tend to have the smaller value on the
left and the larger value on the right,
but it works both ways.
You can see here it looks a little
bit more, no, some small, some large,
that's pretty good.
Now they're all going
at a very uniform rate.
I wanna get some variation there as well,
so we look for start speed.
Same thing, find the little
selector to the right of it.
Random between between two constants, and
then our start speed I'm going to
have between say, one and three.
Okay, that's feeling better, but
you can see they're blinking out.
The stars are getting to the end of
their lifetime and disappearing.
That's cuz currently our lifetime is five.
That means that each particle,
once it's formed from our emitter will
last five seconds and
then it will be destroyed.
So I'm gonna increase my star lifetime
to say 20 and that looks much better,
that's flying on through the air.
Cool, good, they're all going to where I
want them to and it looks like there's
a little bit of parallax because
some of them are faster and
some of them are slower.
I'm gonna slow it down,
just a little bit more two and
to say 0.5, okay so
there's my variation at the moment.
Now they're a bit too bright I think,
they're a little bit too standing out,
they're gonna get in the way, looks like
I could bump into them at the moment.
So if we scroll down we find,
I'm just gonna close up shape here.
By clicking on it I'm gonna find,
oops sorry,
my bad, at the top of your start color.
And if we click on the select
a nexus start color,
we can say random between two colors and
that's gonna allow me to click on the
first color and we could change the color.
We can make it red, we can make it green,
make it whatever we want,
maybe a little bit yellow,
it's interesting.
I have them a little bit of a solar
look to them which is fine, but
I'm most interested in
is grabbing the opacity,
so the alpha down the bottom
of the color selector.
Drag it in to the left and having some
of them alphered out and then sets out
first color and the second color I'm also
going to drag down in the alpha so it's
alphered out a bit as well, so they're
a lot more faint, more in the backround.
A little bit fuzzier,
but that is all fine.
Okay so we've got a star field, if we
click on play, We'll notice another issue.
You see on my Scene view over here,
the particles are starting to be admitted,
but when I look at my Game view,
although my player's disappeared,
the stars look like they took a while and
then they're finally arrive.
That's not so cool.
The way we get around that
is to click on Prewarm.
What Prewarm means is that it's
gonna start the particles somewhere
within their full lifecyle as opposed to
just at the start where they are emitted.
And so if we click on play now,
we can see that the particles are already
populated into our world and they're
slowly going along in the background so
I'm reasonably happy with that effect.
There's tons more we can do,
look at all these things we can tweak and
tune and play with, but for
now that's not too bad.
But I'd like to do is give you a challenge
and that is to make a second star field.
So you create a second faster in other
words these are stars that might be
a little bit closer to us,
star field particle system.
And then tune your two particles systems
until you think they look pretty rad.
So jump in now, take on that challenge,
create your second particle system and
do some tuning and
I'll see you back when you're done.
Okay so I'm gonna click on star field,
rename that while I'm where to star field
five, it's gonna be
the slower further away ones.
And than to duplicate so
control d star field far one,
we'll call this star field closer or
close.
Star field close.
And what I'm gonna do in here
is change a couple of things.
First of all, I'll change the emission.
Now the emission is the,
we've got the rate over time,
it's how many particles
are being produced each second.
I'm gonna drop this down to, say, four.
So there's less of them in this
particular particle system.
And then back up the top,
I'm gonna increase the start speed from,
say, three to five.
So these are the ones
that are zinging along,
five might be a little bit too fast,
just down to four and two.
Two and four I think, not too bad.
Let's have a look at our other star field.
Now it's going to be a little bit too
fast so I'm gonna drop this down to 1 and
say 0.2.
Okay and I think the emission on them, you
can see they're not making the whole way
to the end so I'm gonna increase
my start lifetime to 30.
Make sure they make it the whole way
to the end, you know what I think?
I'm gonna go for a little bit more
dust feeling on these close ones, so
they're going really fast but
they feel more like dust.
So I'm gonna drop the start
size down to 0.1 and 0.2,
the start speed I'll increase 5 and
10, making that go really fast.
Let's see how that looks when I do that.
They've disappeared for some reason.
Click on place so you've got this
little I haven't talked about this,
this little dialogue here you can stop,
you can play,
you can restart and I think,
yeah that's now looking like bits of dust.
You might have trouble
seeing it on the video but
I've got a little bits of dust
that are flying through the world.
Probably increase the emission to seven,
okay, that's feeling pretty good.
Let's click on Play, see how those
two systems are matching up together.
We've got our foreground,
got our background, and
little bits of dust might
need to be a tiny bit faster.
And I think probably the last
thing I'll do is just change that.
I think they're going a little bit too
quick now, so from three to seven.
So you can see, as I said before,
it's a lot of just fiddling around.
Is it a bit too fast, a bit too slow?
How does this look?
How do I like that?
I don't think it's perfect, but
I'm reasonably happy with the effect.
So there you go.
We've created some particle systems.
We've only just scratched the surface.
We'll be doing more particles In this
section to give you a little bit more
exposure to it, but for now I think
our game is looking pretty cool.
I'll see you in the next video.